

Shared Vision's On-line Library, August 1996


Shared Vision On-line August 1996


Making a World of Difference
by Lionel Wilson
Money Talks
There are now 15 mutual funds in Canada that invest according
to socially responsible criteria, compared with only one a decade
ago, says Eugene Ellman, author of The Canadian Ethical Money
Guide.  According to the Toronto-based Social Investment Organization,
a non-profit group of investors, business leaders and interest
groups, 90,000 people have invested a total of more than $2.2
billion under ethical guidelines in Canada.  The SIO publishes
a quarterly newsletter to  help investors track the performance
of Canadian companies on various ethical measures, including workforce
diversity, the environment and international investment.

—Macleans

Heavenly Weight Loss

For the members of First Place, a weight-loss group that blends
dietary advice with lessons from the Scriptures, meetings take
place at Houston’s First Baptist Church. The group boasts
several hundred thousand members at more than 10,000 churches
here and abroad. “Most of our programs are at mainstream
Christian churches,” says group leader Terry Miller. “But
we’ve had requests for materials from Jehovah’s Witnesses,
Mormons and even from Jewish congregations.”

Participants, who pay about $80 for 11-13 weeks of sessions, receive
a loose-leaf notebook with recipes, tips on how to read food labels
and a diary to record intake—along with inspirational Bible
lessons to help get the Lord on board. “We believe that prayer
and Bible study are an important part of learning discipline—something
a lot of overweight people have never learned,” says Miller.


Each First Place meeting ends with a prayer.  Miller leads her
group in thanking God, “for all the victories that will come
from you. Be with us as we face that refrigerator.” Think
of Him as the weight watcher who sees all.

—Newsweek

Getting in Touch

From friendly hugs to full-fledged passion, physical contact helps
keep us healthy. Thousands of alternative healthcare providers—from
chiropractors to massage therapists—swear by the healing
power of touch.  Dr Theresa Crenshaw, a San Diego physician and
sex therapist, credits it with a broad range of physical and emotional
benefits, ranging from providing a sense of comfort, to boosting
the immune system and stabilizing blood pressure. Although the
body of scientific evidence proving the benefits of touch is still
slim, the consequences of touch deprivation are well documented.

Decades of studies on newborns and the elderly, reaching back
to the 1930s, have shown physical and mental suffering from lack
of touch, even if all other basic needs were met. “Touch
deprivation is just as destructive to health as lack of vitamin
C,” says Dr Crenshaw, “and just as easy to remedy.”

—Chatelaine

Hemp Comeback?

Liberal Senator Lorna Milne introduced an amendment to a bill
that will replace the Narcotic Control Act.  If approved, the
amendment will make it legal to cultivate some forms of marijuana,
or hemp, by adding ‘mature hemp stock’ to a list of
approved substances.

Compared with marijuana cigarettes, industrial grades of hemp
have only a tiny fraction of the level of THC—the substance
that produces a high when smoked. Before it was outlawed in 1938,
hemp was used for thousands of years to manufacture a wide variety
of products—from ropes and sails, to shirts, shoes, and even
salad oil.

Environmentalists say a domestic hemp industry could reduce destructive
logging practices by replacing wood-based pulp in the paper-making
process. “It’s also a very, very viable alternative
crop for tobacco on some of the lands in southwestern Ontario
that really can grow very little else,” said Milne.

—The Vancouver Sun


August 96 Issue
Shared Vision's Library
Shared Vision's Village
[Top Of Page]



