

CPJ News Alert





| News Alert Index 
| CPJ Website |



For Immediate Release									
3 May 1996
Contact: Avner Gidron
(212) 465-1004
Committee to Protect Journalists Introduces World Wide Web site on World Press Freedom Day
New Service Allows Easy Access to Information on Cases, Countries, Publications, News Alerts

NEW YORK---The Committee to Protect Journalists, the U.S.-based press freedom advocacy organization, will go on line with its World Wide Web site on May 3, World Press Freedom Day. CPJ’s new Web site is located at http://www.cpj.org. 

"CPJ’s Web site will provide vital news and information and serve as an advocacy tool," said William A. Orme, Jr., CPJ’s executive director. 

"Our World Wide Web site will give reporters and activists around the world immediate access to CPJ’s most recent information and its vast archived database about press freedom violations," Orme continued. "For journalists living in countries where press restrictions are most severe, access to CPJ’s Web site will provide essential information and assistance."

CPJ’s Web site will enable journalists, policy-makers, press freedom activists, and others to quickly access information about press freedom violations in more than 100 countries, hundreds of individual cases, and safety information about dangerous assignments worldwide.

CPJ’s site will include several components:

News Alerts: Up-to-date information about press freedom violations around the world.
Urgent Case Alerts: Each month, CPJ will highlight an urgent press freedom violation case. 
SafetyNet: Practical information and safety tips for reporters on dangerous assignments, from correspondents worldwide and CPJ’s research.
 Press Freedom Database: A regularly updated, searchable database, featuring verified reports of journalists killed, imprisoned, or attacked in more than 100 countries, plus an archive of past CPJ investigations and actions.
 Publications: Access to CPJ’s most recent publications, including its worldwide survey Attacks on the Press in 1995, released in March 1996.
Membership: Applications for membership in CPJ. 



